<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Mr. Tracy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tracy</h2>
			<p>Carston spent the next morning thinking about old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tracy, or, more exactly, how he would hate to walk up his drive. In his country he would have faced a dozen of them, but he had been out early to scout and had seen the house up a much-too-long-yellow avenue between high clipped shrubs. Unsympathetic. Like a long neck into a trap.</p>
			<p>At half-past twelve he had an idea. At two o’clock precisely he had passed the lodge. At two minutes past he saw old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tracy leave his front door and halt, turning as he walked, to speak to someone within. Two seconds later he saw a neat painted gate in the laurel wall, the entrance of a tunnel. One second later he was mastering the latch, and had disappeared from sight.</p>
			<p>We will follow him, as earlier writers say so prettily, as he commences trespasser, in hiding from the approaching master of the house.</p>
			<p>He followed the tunnel about ten yards, where it led him on to a wood-path parallel with the drive, whose principal feature was a pavement of enormous roots. He listened to the crisp sound of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tracy’s boots, waited till he had passed, tripped over the roots, slipped down the tunnel again, and reached the house as though nothing had happened. He was ashamed until he noticed that it was a sound instinct that had made him avoid the old man in open.</p>
			<p>Half an hour later he was in the library. He heard: “So you want to buy that mischief-making cup for an antiquarian friend in the States? And you want its pedigree? I can write you out the particulars, of course. My name counts for something, but I imagine that I was sufficiently precise last time we met.”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” said Carston, “you were not. I have its photograph in the book that wasn’t burned as thoroughly as you might have wished. There it’s described as a mass-vessel, early English, from your collection. Now, I don’t give a damn which it is, but it can’t be that and a poison-cup. And before I write out a cheque I want to know which.”</p>
			<p>“But, in any case, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carston, while we are speaking of money, I imagine that any cheque should be made out to me.”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. I and three other persons heard you confirm your son’s gift of it to Miss Taverner.” (His reputation as a collector’s at stake. It can’t be two things at once)⁠—“As to a second opinion, I expect your British Museum could give us that.”</p>
			<p>“I admit,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tracy, “that it is probably a mass-cup. In my horror of loose feeling I preferred to suggest any origin, however grim or far-fetched, than that my relatives should abandon themselves to superstition.”</p>
			<p>This might have sounded noble, but Carston kept on. <q>Bit of bunk: what has he been up to? That’s what I’m not to find out.</q> He said:</p>
			<p>“It seems to me that you’ve exchanged a fine, mysterious, almost sacred fable for a sordid, even brutal, personal invention. Facts are what I’m here for.”</p>
			<p>
				<q>What I won’t get, not the ones that matter.</q>
			</p>
			<p>“You can be satisfied that in all probability the photograph describes it correctly. An early Church vessel, its shape suggests a chalice, with the setting lost. If so, it might well have been part of a crusader’s loot. Incidentally, since its probable origin greatly enhances its value, you might do well to stick to my earlier suggestion, the last part of which is no more than simple fact⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Cool!” Carston gasped. Cucumbers and icebergs.</p>
			<p>“⁠—Or is to be part of the price for Scylla Taverner’s hypothetical virginity?” Carston thought:</p>
			<p><q>If I start losing my temper, it is he who will find things out. He chose blind-man’s bluff. We must play until we needn’t.</q> At the same time conviction came to him that they would find out nothing. His direct attack was obvious, useless, unfruitful.</p>
			<p>“I have nothing to say, but that I buy nothing with my eyes shut. And what I’ve come to get is your reasons for supposing it a Church vessel⁠—” Vain repetition. Not even taken the wind out of the old man’s sails. Sailing serenely on: through a weak position: through fraud.</p>
			<p>“You shall have them, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carston, tonight. Signed on my authority. You are staying at the Star?”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
